# Assignment 1 – Reactive Robot World (Gazebo Sim)

This repository contains a Gazebo Sim environment developed for **Assignment 1** of a robotics course.

The goal of this environment is to simulate a structure shaped like the number **5**, where a robot can navigate using **reactive behaviors** such as wall-following.

The world is designed so that a robot can:

1. Start outside the structure
2. Follow the outer wall
3. Enter the circular section
4. Reach the center of the circle

---

# Repository Structure

# Assignment 1 – Reactive Robot World (Gazebo Sim)

This repository contains a Gazebo Sim environment developed for **Assignment 1** of a robotics course.

The goal of this environment is to simulate a structure shaped like the number **5**, where a robot can navigate using **reactive behaviors** such as wall-following.

The world is designed so that a robot can:

1. Start outside the structure
2. Follow the outer wall
3. Enter the circular section
4. Reach the center of the circle

---

# Repository Structure

```bash
ass1/
├── build/
├── install/
├── log/
├── README.md
└── src/
    └── comand/
        ├── comand/
        ├── launch/
        ├── models/
        │ └── cinco.stl
        │ └── diff_robot.stl
        ├── resource/
        ├── test/
        ├── worlds/
        │ └── building_robot.sdf
        ├── package.xml
        ├── setup.cfg
        └── setup.py
```

## Key Directories
Most of the folders in this repository are automatically generated by ROS 2 and typically do not require manual modification. The following directories contain the relevant files for development:

### worlds/
Contains the Gazebo world file.

- This is where you can modify the environment and add new objects

### models/
Stores all simulation models used in the environment.

- Current models include:

    - cinco: a wall shaped like the number 5
    - diff_robot: a differential drive robot equipped with a LiDAR sensor

For detailed geometry and structure, refer to the associated .stl files.

### comand/

Responsible for launching the simulation and ROS 2 nodes.

- If you add new models, nodes, or functionalities, make sure to update the launch files accordingly so they are included during execution.

---

# Requirements

To run this simulation you need:

- **Ubuntu / WSL**
- **Gazebo Sim (gz-sim)**

Recommended setup:

Ubuntu 22.04 + Gazebo Harmonic


## Installation Instructions

Before proceeding with the installation of ROS 2 and Gazebo, it's recommended to first update your package list:

```bash
sudo apt update
```

### Installing ROS 2 (Jazzy)

For installing ROS 2 (Jazzy), follow the official installation guide available at: [ROS 2 Jazzy Installation Guide](https://docs.ros.org/en/jazzy/Installation.html)

### Installing Gazebo

To install Gazebo, refer to the official tutorial for integrating it with ROS:  [Gazebo ROS Installation Guide](https://gazebosim.org/docs/latest/ros_installation/)

# Clone the Repository

Clone the repository from GitHub:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/bineenasc/ass1.git
```
Enter the project folder:
```bash
cd ass1
```
# Running the Simulation

To run the simulation, you'll need three terminals, all within the /ass1 directory. Follow these steps to set up and execute the simulation:

## 1- Set up the Environment

In each terminal, you will need to source the ROS2 workspace setup. It’s recommended to add the following setup to your **~/.bashrc** file for convenience:

```bash
# === ROS2 / Gazebo project setup ===
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash

export GZ_SIM_RESOURCE_PATH=$HOME/[path]/ass1/src/comand/models

# Aliases for ease of use
alias cdb='cd ~/[path]/ass1 && colcon build --symlink-install'
alias sim='cd ~/[path]/ass1 && source install/setup.bash && ros2 launch comand simulation.launch.py'
alias bridge='cd ~/[path]/ass1 && source install/setup.bash && ros2 run ros_gz_bridge parameter_bridge /scan@sensor_msgs/msg/LaserScan@gz.msgs.LaserScan /cmd_vel@geometry_msgs/msg/Twist@gz.msgs.Twist'
alias wall='cd ~/[path]/ass1 && source install/setup.bash && ros2 run comand wall_follower'
```

### Instructions to edit **~/.bashrc**

- Opend the ./bashrc file:
```bash
nano ~/.bashrc
```   

- Paste the above code at the end of the file

- Save and exit the editor:

    - Press Ctrl + O, then hit Enter.
    - Press Ctrl + X to exit.

- Reload your ./bashrc:
```bash
source ~/.bashrc
```

## 2- Running the Simulation

Now you are ready to run the simulation. Open three separate terminals and execute the following commands in each one:


- Terminal 1: Launch the Gazebo simulation window:
```bash
sim
```

- Terminal 2: Establish the communication bridge between the client and server:
```bash
bridge
```

- Terminal 3: Run the wall follower:
```bash
wall
```

## 3- Exiting the Simulation

To exit the simulations, press **Ctrl + C** in each terminal.

After closing the simulations, it’s advisable to clean up any lingering processes. Run the following commands in a terminal:

```bash
pkill -f gz
pkill -f gzserver
pkill -f gzclient
```

# Running the file.html

```bash
hostname -I | awk '{print $1}'
source /opt/ros/$ROS_DISTRO/setup.bash
ros2 launch rosbridge_server rosbridge_websocket_launch.xml address:=0.0.0.0
``` 